So we have already written a program using compound conditional statements let us look at some more
example programs by using compound conditional statement.
So here in this video I will take one example and I will show you how to use AND
I will show you how to use OR.
So let us take an example.
Suppose I wanted to take the age of a person and find out whether he is young or not.
Suppose I'm the program.
Then what is the input I should know your age.
Then looking at an age I should say that you are young.
So what is the condition, what age is a young age.
So let's say age from 12 starts at young age and last age 50.
So before 12 he is a child of more than 50.
Let's say he's an old person.
Let us take this one.
So if you want to change its values you can change it.
I'm taking the example like this so I should check take your age and check that it should be greater than
equal to 12,
and less than equal to 50.
So there are two values I have to check.
So how to frame the condition.
See if age is a variable then it should be greater than or equal to 12 so greater than equal to 12
means
So if I draw a line for first year to 100 years of age it is 12 years here,
lets say its 12 years here,
So it's going in this direction.
Right.
And it should stop at 50.
So let us say 50 year is here.
So it should stop at 50.
So it should be greater then 12 and less than 50.
So here I will write in English that is AND age should be less than 50 or equal to 50.
So here we use AND, and both the time we have to say age.
So this is one condition and this is second condition.
We are joining these two condition using AND so first condition age is greater than equal to zero.
And second condition that is age is less than equal to 50 and that are join with
AND. so one idea i will give you here when you are looking for the value that should be within this
range that is starting from this point and ending at here then it should be between these two means
you have to use and.
Right.
So here already I have a flowchart let us write a program for that first let us look at the flow check
as a program I should take input from you the input here is age so here input box enter age and read
then I should check what is the age.
So here I will write on the condition if age is greater than or equal to twelve and age is less than
or equal to 50.
If this is a true then print young otherwise false then not young, print not young and stop. so this is the flowchart
not looking at the flow chart.
I will write down the program.
So let us write the program and see I'm not showing you the algorithm.
now you can write down the algorithm,
I have shown you a few algorithms you can follow the same procedure and write down the
algorithms if at all.
It requires in your academic. now I guess you are in a position to write algorithms by yourself.
There is nothing but a simple language is used for writing a program right now let us write a program.
now for program I'm not writing hash include all those things so it's understood it's there right
now let us convert this.
So what does the first thing enter age .
So it means there is only one variable that is required in this program that is age so I should declare
age is which type? Integer type, we will not take twelve point five years or twelve
point seven five years, 12 year or next 13 years.
So let us take it as integer then here I should give a Cout enter age
then cin I should read age value ok, now that condition but how right on the same condition in c++
if age is greater than equal to 12 AND means we have this && symbol then age is less than or equal to
fifty then here I should print the message cout young
then else cout not young, see here I have not use of flower brackets I'm not using these flower brackets
so if you have a single line in the inside if and single line inside else no need of Flower brackets
otherwise writing flower bracket is a good practice if you don't have more than one statement just
you have one statement you can skip it.
So with out flower bracket also you can write and at the end I should write down return zero.
a common practice in a main function you should write.
So this is the program so you can type the program and test it, demo is  also given for it and in the
coding exercise I would be asking you just write down the condition instead of writing a complete program
just write down the conditions, coding exercise condition part will be left blank so you have to practice
the condition so just with that you can learn how to write down the conditions let us write one more program
same example but here let us say we want to know the person this child or old  he should not be young.
suppose, Example there is some offer going on for children or aged people.
Right.
So let us say offer is for children or aged people not for young people.
So whether he is eligible for that offer or not let us write a condition learn how to write down the
condition for that then I will write on the program so flowchart will be same only just I have to
change the messages that is eligible or not eligible so I'll make changes here and then we will discuss
the next question. so let us frame a condition here, see to be eligible for an offer he should be
a child or old person but not young people.
So you have already taken this one that up to two years it is a child from 12 to 50 it is
young and beyond this it's old age.
Now in this one we have to see that the age should fall on the side to be a child or on that side to
be a older person.
So for these people offer is not there.
So we have to check that age is on this side if true is a child otherwise age should be on this
side otherwise means or, so age should be greater than 50.
So in this we are not looking for the value within the range we are looking for the value that is on
different sites off range.
So now OR operator is useful.
So let us frame the conditions already I have a flowchart here and I made a message that is eligible
and not eligible just i will write down the condition here.
So the condition is if age is less than 12 years, so equal to 12 years onwards we are saying he is young
young.
OR
Age is greater than 50.
If true he is either child or old.
So this he's eligible or he or she is eligible otherwise not eligible.
So let us write a program for this one.
So already we have this.
So just i have to give a condition and give a message.
Here I will write the condition if age is less than 12 OR means || we use and age is
greater than 50.
Then we will print a message by saying cout eligible
otherwise means else just have to give a message that is not eligible.
That's all and off Main function so we'll say a return zero and end.
That's it so again for this program also there's a coding exercise available you have to write
on this condition right.
The condition just it is for practising the condition and there is the demo program available so you can watch
the program and try the program by yourself and also PDF available and beyond that we have a few more
coding exercises so where some time conditions is asked and some time you are asked for a complete
code so I read the coding exercise properly and solve.